:memo: Rework CDN docs (#2746)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/domains/cdn/fastly.md

---
title: "Set up your Fastly CDN"
sidebarTitle: "Fastly setup"
weight: 1
description: Learn how to configure your Fastly CDN.
aliases:

>  - "/golive/steps/fastly.html"

Reviewer: :clipboard: We shouldn't use aliases: https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#redirect-pages

---
title: "Configure your Fastly CDN"
sidebarTitle: "Fastly"
weight: 1
description: Learn how to configure your Fastly CDN.
aliases:
  - "/golive/steps/fastly.html"
---

You can [use a CDN](./_index.md) to deliver your site's content to users more quickly.
To set up a Fastly CDN on a Grid project,
follow the instructions on this page.

> **Dedicated users**: Fastly CDNs included in Dedicated projects are set up by Platform.sh. If you need help with your Fastly CDN settings,

Reviewer: :lady_beetle: This is the only instance of referring to `Dedicated users`. I think it'd be best to talk about Dedicated plans or projects or the like.

:hammer_and_wrench: This might be the first time someone sees that a Fastly CDN specifically is included in a Dedicated plan, so I might rephrase that part. Especially to emphasize that they're fully managed by Platform.sh (not just set up, but afterwards too).
```suggestion
**Dedicated plans** come with a Fastly CDN fully managed by Platform.sh.
To modify any settings for a managed Fastly CDN,
```

[open a support ticket](https://console.platform.sh/-/users/~/tickets/open).

> Note that when you request that a new domain is added to your Fastly service,

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: I feel like it might be clearer this way, but please let me know if you think I'm wrong. This might be less clear for non-native speakers. My problem is that `request that X is done` isn't really fully "correct", but the correct version involves subjunctives that most people will find difficult to parse.

```suggestion
When you request for a new domain to be added to your Fastly service,
```

> Platform.sh support provides you with [a `CNAME` record](../../domains/steps/dns.md) for domain control validation.

Reviewer: :pick: 
```suggestion
Platform.sh support provides you with a [`CNAME` record](../../domains/steps/dns.md) for domain control validation.
```

---
title: "Configure your Fastly CDN"
sidebarTitle: "Fastly"
weight: 1
description: Learn how to configure your Fastly CDN.
aliases:
  - "/golive/steps/fastly.html"
---

You can [use a CDN](./_index.md) to deliver your site's content to users more quickly.

> By default, a Fastly CDN is included in Dedicated projects.

Reviewer: :lady_beetle: If the assumptions I made in the open question from the last review are true, then this entire page doesn't apply to Dedicated projects. But I don't think that is clear here. I think there should be something clearer about what Dedicated users need to do, if anything. I think it's only the Anycast support ticket, if applicable.

Author: You are right in that most of the page isn't for Dedicated projects. However, there's information about CNAME records being provided by PSH that seems important to share with Dedicated users as it's specific to them. I moved it to the beginning of the page to clearly differentiate Dedicated from Grid (=> the rest of the page) but I'm not entirely sure it's the best place to put it.

---
title: "Configure your Fastly CDN"
sidebarTitle: "Fastly"
weight: 1
description: |
aliases:
  - "/golive/steps/fastly.html"
---

You can [use a CDN](./_index.md) to deliver your site's content to users more quickly.

By default, a Fastly CDN is included in Dedicated projects.
Self-Service Grid plans don't automatically include a Fastly CDN, 
but you can set up one at any time.

> ## Get a DNS TXT record

Author: This is for Dedicated plans only, but it's not a feature so the tier availability header wouldn't work here. Is there specific formatting you would use in this case to signal that not all clients are concerned?

To use a Fastly CDN included in a Dedicated plan, 
you need to [request a DNS TXT record from support](../../overview/get-support.md#create-a-support-ticket) before going live.
To add this DNS TXT record to your domain settings,
contact your domain registrar.

{{% disable-cache CDN="Fastly" %}}

## Connect Fastly to an origin server

To allow Fastly to start caching your content,
you need to connect it to an origin server.  

To do so, follow these steps:

> 1. [Enable TLS](./_index.md#set-up-tls-certificates) for the backend connection to Platform.sh.

Author: Looking closer at the Fastly and Cloudflare documentation, this looks like regular CDN setup and is not specific to Platform.sh, so I don't think it's worth having such information in our docs. Instead, I added a section with a link to Fastly and Cloudflare's respective Getting started docs that go through the whole setup.

2. Configure your DNS to point your domain at Fastly.
   For more information, see your DNS provider's official documentation.
3. Add your default Platform.sh branch as [a host on Fastly](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/working-with-hosts).

## Force TLS and enable HSTS

For enhanced security, you can enforce HTTPS communication between your visitors and Fastly,
and between Fastly and your Platform.sh origin server.   

> To do so, from your Fastly account, [force TLS and enable HSTS](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/enabling-hsts-through-fastly#forcing-tls-and-enabling-hsts).

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
To do so, in your Fastly account [force TLS and enable HSTS](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/enabling-hsts-through-fastly#forcing-tls-and-enabling-hsts).
```

Reviewer: Might also be worth explaining what HSTS is? Not sure, if it's explained enough at the link.

All HTTP requests are then automatically redirected to HTTPS.

> ## Use Cloudflare Anycast options for your apex domain

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
## Use Fastly anycast options for your apex domain
```

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: As with Cloudflare
```suggestion
## Handle apex domains
```

To start routing client traffic through Fastly,
you need to [create `CNAME` records for your domain names](../../domains/steps/dns.md#why-cname-records) 
through your DNS provider.

> However, `CNAME` records can't point to apex domains.

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
But `CNAME` records can't point to apex domains.
```

> As a workaround, Fastly offers [Anycast options](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/using-fastly-with-apex-domains).

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
As a workaround, Fastly offers [anycast options](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/using-fastly-with-apex-domains).
```

---
title: "Configure your Fastly CDN"
sidebarTitle: "Fastly"
weight: 1
description: |
aliases:
  - "/golive/steps/fastly.html"
---

You can [use a CDN](./_index.md) to deliver your site's content to users more quickly.

By default, a Fastly CDN is included in Dedicated projects.
Self-service Grid plans don't automatically include a Fastly CDN, 
but you can set up one at any time.

## Before you begin

You need:

- An up-and-running Platform.sh project
- Self-service Grid plans: a [Fastly](https://www.fastly.com/) CDN subscription

{{% disable-cache CDN="Fastly" %}}

> ## 2. Dedicated: Get a DNS TXT record

Reviewer: :question: Is it only for Dedicated or also for Enterprise who aren't Dedicated?

To use a Fastly CDN included in a Dedicated plan, 
before going live you need to [request a DNS TXT record from support](../../overview/get-support.md#create-a-support-ticket).
To add this DNS TXT record to your domain settings,
contact your domain registrar.

## 3. Set up your Fastly CDN

To properly configure your Fastly CDN, 

> see the Fastly official documentation on [how to get started](https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/getting-started#_basics).

Reviewer: :question: Also a question here about whether to include the part about getting the target.
